Hello everyone and welcome back we're going to continue our discussion from last time of part 1.
Talking about funds in the last lecture we showed some basic CSSA properties for font's.
Now we're going to explore how to understand OS choice and Fonte relationship will also show how to
use custom wet funds.
Let's get started by jumping into our browser checking out a few links.
All of these links are provided as comments in the Part 1 font's h tim L and CSSA files that come with
the download for this course.
Let me top the browser now.
OK so the first two links so I want you to check out the official wikipedia links for the list of typefaces
included with Microsoft Windows and on the second link here with Mac OS.
And you can just scroll down and see the latest fonts added for Mac OS.
And if you scroll further down you can see the family name subtype faces available.
So as I mentioned the previous lecture not every font is going to have every face or style available
every font can be shown as a taluk or bold.
And here you can check out the Wikipedia links for more information on the faces available.
That's that bold taluk etc. and the typeface is available now if you're choosing a font and you want
to know availability on both platforms.
You can check out this Web site called CSSA font stack dot com and it has a really nice display of a
font and then the percent of availability on Windows computers and Mac Peters So if we zoom in here
for a second we can see something like Arial is a font that is available on 99 percent of Windows and
98 percent of Mac computers.
So it's a pretty safe choice for pretty much most operating systems that are using Windows or Mac.
And that goes for Ubuntu as well.
So there are other choices that may not be as safe for instance something like optima is really only
available on Mac computers at 94 percent and available only about 3 percent of Windows computers.
So if you're trying to choose a default font try to choose something that has high availability on both
Mac and Windows.
Well let's say you're wanting to choose your own font.
Well you can actually download fonts from the Internet and you can either download the font file itself
and link it to your project locally which is what you'll do when you host everything.
But you can also just link to an actual Cdn or a link itself.
Let me go ahead and explore how we can do that.
There's two Web sites we're going to be exploring.
One is Fahnestock Google dot com which is a really great Web site to download fonts from.
And the other one is font library the org which kind of has a little bit of a goofier fonts but it does
have some pretty nice fonts as well.
Let's explore how we can actually grab one of these fonts and put it into our Web site.
So if you come to Fahnestock google.com you're basically looking at the rectory of a lot of font families
and you can clarify what kind of font you're looking for maybe something like handwriting monospace
trending and maybe you're looking for a specific language et cetera number styles Thicknesse.
So let's look at one that's really obviously not a font that comes on your computer.
So this one right here.
Baria let's click on that.
Click on the plus sign to add it.
And here we see the family selected.
Now if I click on that I see this right here and you'll notice that it says embed font so to embed your
selected fonts on a web page.
Copy this code into the head of your team document and then it tells you what to specify and assess.
So you use the following CSSA rules to specify these families barrio.
And then you can also say cursive.
So let me show you how we can do that.
And you also notice that it has a low time of fast.
So loading this using these links is going to take a little bit of time because your Web site is going
to connect to Google but you can also download the font itself.
But let's try just with the embedding.
So I will copy this link.
And jumped to my text editor and here you have the text editor open and in the head of the HTML file.
This is part one of fonts from last time.
I'm going to save this right here and it's just a reference to zoom out a little bit to the actual link.
So you Fahnestock Google API.
So right here I've added the link and now I can come over here.
And let's say we want the paragraphs to actually have the fonts that we just downloaded.
So let me delete some of the stuff from last time.
That will delete most of it except for the paragraph and we'll take care of font family and we're going
to copy and paste what is here.
This font family line.
So I will copy that and then come back to the Adam text editor and paste that right there.
So let me save that.
You have part 1 fonts we can't copy that full path.
They just come here it's the directory copy full path.
And now let's paste it into our browser and here we can see that I have this sort of funky font from
that Google API.
So it's really easy to add in new fonts using Google fonts API.
And if you wanted to you could also download the font and link to the file locally.
We'll be talking a lot more about linking stuff locally versus linking stuff online when we talk about
bootstrap.
But the main idea I want you to get out of this lecture is that you can come to Google fonts.
Pick any font that looks good to you.
Add it to what is essentially almost like a shopping cart.
And then check this out and it will actually begin to add.
So here if I wanted to use two different types of families fonts you can see here that Google has automatically
already added them to the link so that I can get rid of barrio the first one and then only have this
play fair display font and tells you what to specify in the CSSA to actually specify those families.
The other web site I want to show you about fonts is not Google fonts but this font library that which
is also in other web site that hosts open source funds and a key thing to remember is that some fonts
can actually be really expensive and are not free.
So not all fonts are free.
You're going to have to make sure that you check the copyright and whether or not you have permission
to use a font on Google fonts all these fonts are free and open source.
You can check them out.
Same with font library.
ORG but on other Web sites sometimes you have to pay to get access to a fund.
So make sure you keep that in mind.
Malicious show you how to grab something from library or going to go check out a handwriting fonts.
Click on it over here.
Let's choose a song that says Alex brush.
So I click on that one here I see the the font what it looks like.
Great.
And then it says to use this font it's very much the same thing we're doing.
So I just copy this link put it in the head of my H Tim L file so let's get rid of the last one.
Paste that in there.
Save it and then over on the C Ss I can see what I have to use so we'll just copy and paste that I'm
showing right now for an example paragraph.
So we'll come back up here and paste the whole thing in there.
So now I'm just calling Alice.
Alex brush regular save that.
And let's come back up here and refresh this page and we can see now I'm using that Alex brush font.
All right.
Hopefully you realize this is actually a pretty simple process just linking to the head of each team
document and then using the information in your CSSA.
So basically use now any font you want.
Does it have to actually be included on Windows or Macs.
You'll be loading it directly from this Web site Google font or library org.
All right.
That's all I wanted to talk about for this lecture.
Do you have any questions feel free to post them to the Kewaunee forums.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.